Bernie Sanders he's become famous as the
guy fighting against the millionaires
and billionaires hi I'm Bernie Sanders
I'm running for president our campaign
is about taking on the powerful special
interest that dominate our economic and
political life I'm talking about Wall
Street the health insurance companies
the drug companies the fossil fuel
industry the military-industrial complex
the private prison industry and the
large multinational corporations oh damn
no Bernie has entered the race
and did you get his list of enemies this
guy doesn't mess around
yeah he didn't come to play he was like
big bags little bags Tyra Banks I'm
shutting you all down you're all going
down and you can tell that Bernie
serious about winning because he didn't
rub his hair with a balloon before
filming this video he's serious now he's
in it no balloon this time we're going
smoke now if Bernie were to win the
presidency he would become the oldest
American president ever yes and I mean
that literally he was born a few months
before George Washington but but don't
let Bernie's age fool you this guy is as
feisty as ever just look at how he
responded to Howard Schultz threatening
the Democratic Party Howard Schultz has
now said he would not run as an
independent if the Democrats moderate
how did Schultz on every television
solution in this country why are you
quoting Howard Schultz because he's a
billionaire yeah I've missed Bernie so
much are you kidding me that I always
earn dad nice whoa
Oh God nice because every other
politician would respond to that onsen
like a politician any way that we like
well I believe Howard Schultz entering
the race would be responsible at the
sunburn is just like Howard Schultz can
run for president of my earth Bernie
Sanders senator Vermont and man who
knows the Ducks in the park by name you
see it turns out thirty years ago when
Bernie Sanders was the mayor of
Burlington Vermont he hosted a
public-access TV show yeah and a few
days ago that TV Network released the
full archives online and I'm talking
hours and hours of pure Bernie gold like
there's so much gold in these archives
Bernie's gonna demand it gets
redistributed to the working class
that's how much gold there is and when
you start watching this footage the
first thing that's really apparent is
how consistent Bernie has been
throughout his life we have a crisis
situation we are one we are one of two
nations in the industrialized world that
does not have a national health care
system the wealthiest people in our
country are becoming wealthier to a
large degree the tax system in this
country is extremely unfair and that I
asked working people and elderly people
and poor people to pay too much while
large corporations and wealthy people do
not pay their fair share
god damned Bernie Sanders he's never
changed and I was talking about his
platform the dude look exactly the same
back then as he does today you realize
he's 46 years old in that photo I'm not
joking he's 46 years old he looks the
same like if you travelled back in time
in a time machine and the first person
you met was Bernie Sanders you'd be like
this piece of doesn't work
we're gonna be like no my friend what
doesn't work is our healthcare system
like I wonder has Bernie just looked
like this is entire life yeah I bet when
he was born the doctor was like
congratulations mrs. Sanders it's a
beautiful healthy old man well done and
then instead of spanking Bernie the
doctor just shook his hand welcome to
the world mr. Sanders
welcome for the Ross I don't know it
looks impressive that Bernie's been
consistent in his policies it really
says more about America than it says
about Bernie when you think about it
right he's saying the same thing for 30
years because America has had the same
problems for 30 years but here's what
makes this old TV show so amazing right
it wasn't just about Bernie's policies
it was like a full TV show with
different segments and by far by far the
best segments of all of the ones where
he interacted with kids all right like
this segment where he talks to some kids
at camp about drugs
who knows about cocaine anyone ever seen
cocaine hold it one at a time what about
cocaine good thing bad thing what about
even smoking cigarettes suya smokes
let me oh come on raise your hand well
other than your parents who smokes
you got your smoke ready I've seen a lot
of kids with 12 and 11 smoking all right
we need five-year dog
[Applause]
that's so adorable I don't smoke because
I'm five years old like it's almost like
Bernie can't tell the difference between
kids and adults because I left talk
finance you guys diversified who's got a
401k who was the 401k who talks about
cocaine with five-year-olds like the way
he was asking the question made it
seemed less like an anti drugs talk and
more like he was trying to score some
blow he's just like you guys know about
cocaine or you know I can find it at a
good price come on this is Vermont let's
hit the slopes come on come on
and Hilma show Bernie didn't just talk
to kids about hard drugs he also called
them out on their BS
let me ask you a question what is your
name yes all right George do you think
it's important that you know how to read
well and write oh you think not oh
really I'm trying to argue with these
kids they think they're very smart and
that school is not important yeah all
right well I disagree with you all right
I think you're dumb
[Applause]
[Laughter]
oh wow
yo I think this kids about to get his
ass kicked by Bernie Sanders and let me
know coming back from that and Bernie
kicked your ass you have to move to a
different state and even then you know
that be one guy be like hey didn't you
get your ass beat by that 90 year old
Beulah he was only 46 I swear but by far
by far my favorite clip of all that we
found is when a little girl asks mayor
Bernie to build an amusement park in her
neighborhood and all of a sudden he
turns it into a town hall I was just
wondering um my mother had this idea for
music an indoor outdoor amusement park
first thing that we have to do though
before we could do something like that
is to make sure that we owned the land
that's one of the concerns that we have
at the present moment we don't own a lot
of the land down on the ridge down in
downtown it's owned by the railroad and
one of the things that we're trying to
do now is to figure out which land we
should buy and how much we should pay
for it so we're working on that but I
think your mother's idea is a very good
idea and I congratulate you for giving
her all these good ideas
that little girl is my hero because she
was asking a fun question and Bernice
turning is like a TED talk about zoning
laws and you can tell she was totally
over it
oh there that was so crazy oh you know
what's also crazy is that that little
girl grew up to be Hillary Clinton I
don't know if it was CNN or if it was
the format's of the nights but Bernie
Sanders in particular he seemed ready to
throw down Jake your question is a
Republican talking point what do you say
to congressman Delaney you're wrong
maybe you did that and make money off
the health care but our job is run a
non-profit help them set up if we're
going to force Americans to make these
radical changes they're not gonna go
along you throw your hands up but damn
Bernie was not messing around tonight
huh yeah I thought he was gonna send
someone to the hospital and then pay
their entire bill he was the big drama
leading up to tonight was the growing
tension between America's socialist
sweethearts Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth
Warren
it started when Bernie's campaign
started saying that Warren only attracts
rich and well educated voters and in
response Elizabeth Warren hit back and
now it is full on beef gloves off
Elizabeth Warren and Bernie Sanders
trade accusations ahead of the Democrats
final debate before voting in Iowa
begins that non-aggression pact between
the parties to progressives it certainly
appears to be over campaigns now duking
it out over a private conversation in
2018 when Sanders allegedly told Warren
a woman can't win
Sanders denies the claims calling the
idea that he would say a woman couldn't
win ludicrous but then Warren
contradicted him publicly I thought a
woman could win she said he disagreed
the beef between Bernie and Warren must
feel like seeing your parents getting
divorced you know which is a situation
that bernie is too blunt to handle
delicately can you imagine him be like
daddy is it my fault that you and mommy
don't love each other anymore like whoa
we're we're happy and then
you do the math one time allies Bernie
Sanders in Elizabeth Warren the two
senators they're working through some
issues they had this moment after the
debate where Senator Warren left Bernie
Sanders hanging as he tried to shake her
hand that was followed by a brief but
noticeably tense exchange Tom Schneider
they're deciding I'm not gonna get in
the middle of all this right too late
Wow this beef between Bernie and Warren
is really heating up and you know what
that means
trial by combat that's how they do it
the New York Times is the country's most
trusted paper and where America turns
for news until they run out of free
articles the papers editorial board
brought in each candidate for lengthy
interviews which they then released to
the public it was great because we got
to learn a little bit more about all of
the candidates for instance we learned
that if you're having a surprise
birthday party don't get Bernie to
planets
what are you likely to fail at or to do
poorly as president look I don't
tolerate terribly well and I
come from a different background than a
lot of other people run the country not
good at back-slapping I'm not good at
pleasantries if you have your birthday
I'm not gonna call you up to
congratulate using the love name they're
like nice things about me that's not
what I do never have I know in Ikea not
yours I take that as a little bit of a
criticism self-criticism I've been
amazed at how many people respond to
happy birthday Oh Bernie thanks so much
for calling you know it works it's just
not my style
god damn Bernie Sanders does not mess
around the question was what would you
be bad at as president and his answer
somehow became birthdays I feel like
Bernie should just start his own line of
Hallmark cards and it's just a white
piece of paper that says what Alva
it's almost it's almost at insa feel
like Larry David impersonated him on SNL
so now Bernie is impersonating Larry in
real life you know he's just like and
why and why are we doing this huh why
are we still blowing out candles you
know what you know what my wish is to
eat a slice of cake without your spit on
it how about that how about that for
years grumpy old white dudes have been
telling us that socialism is total
socialism leads to decline and ruin this
system crushes human souls but as the
Daily Show's new senior youth
correspondent I know that Millennials
right now think socialism is totally on
trend if there are only someone we could
talk to someone with some deep
experience on the subject when I started
doing this sort of piece on socialism I
knew that there was really only one
politician who I can talk to about it so
I guess my question is do you know a OSI
true and what's her ability like if you
could go to any time you want to speak
to her yeah maybe I just figured you
know seriously you can't talk socialism
in America without going to the oh gee
senator Bernie Sanders I believe in a
society where all people do well that's
just a handful of
could he be the oldest millennial in
America you know that capitalism has
given us a bunch of really dope things
right iPhones cars hamburgers The
Avengers movies the opioid crisis so why
are young people like myself very open
to socialism your generation the younger
generation will in all likelihood have a
lower standard of living than your
parents your generation is leaving
school more deeply in debt having a much
harder time finding affordable housing
the jobs that you get will pay less so
the idea of creating a society with more
egalitarianism I think is very appealing
to young people okay sheesh yeah yeah I
feel the Bern this is strange to be in a
position where in 2016
you were the insurgent candidates you
know you were you were leading a
political revolution but now you're
entering the race as a front-runner like
does that feel different for you are you
gonna do things differently this time or
does feel differently and and what's
happened is that four years ago forever
the ideas that we talked about the idea
that health care is a human right not a
privilege right four years ago that was
perceived as a radical idea
not anymore the idea that if you work 40
hours a week in this country you should
make at least 15 bucks an hour and not
live in poverty so then you're done why
run what little problem we have to take
on an incredibly powerful establishment
that to a large degree controls the
economic and political life of this
country right and when we talk the you
know the mantra of our campaign is not
me us and the reason for that is to take
on Wall Street to take on the greed of
the pharmaceutical industry and the
insurance companies and if you want to
save the planet you're gonna have to
take on the fossil fuel industry right
and that means millions of people are
gonna have to stand up and fight back in
a way that we have never done before and
that's what this campaign is about you
have been proud to say yes I believe
that we need to adjust how people earn
money in this country and how people are
taxed yes
Trump is now used this as a slur against
you calling you a socialist you know
saying that it means that we're gonna
all have to drive battery cars and and
share one road but what is what does it
mean good to you good question thank you
for asking it it means that economic
rights are human rights I believe from
the bottom of my heart that health care
is a human right I believe that in the
richest country in the history of the
world we should not have a tax system
which allows Amazon owned by the
wealthiest guy in the world to pay zero
in federal taxes last year after making
eleven billion dollars in profits that
is insane to be a Democratic Socialist
means that we believe I believe that
human rights include a decent job
affordable housing health care education
and by the way a clean environment it
means that we cannot allow our kids to
grow up in an environment which is
increasingly unhealthy right
uninhabitable we have got to take on the
fossil fuel industry move to energy
efficiency and sustainable energy I
[Applause]
[Music]